as a lot of you might know i own and
work in a computer shop I handle all
types of different computer service I
work on my own machines I build them
repair virus removal even do expert
testimony in the circuit court for
computer crimes so if somebody's got a
question that come to me for solutions
very often I see computers come through
here through the shop where something
has been done to it a lot of times
customers absolutely refuse to believe
or acknowledge that they are the reason
that the machine failed and how tough it
is for them to understand or accept the
reality that they damage their machine
sometimes it's comical it's funny very
often what they do or other times it a
grits the living out of me because
they damaged a piece of my work and are
trying to tarnish my reputation for
their own fault so here begins a brand
new series of what i like to call how to
fail at computers
so this computer came on in here with
the explanation that has not been
running in months that the machine had
absolutely no power when a customer
claims the machine has been sitting
around for a while I have difficulty
with that because why would anybody
leave the machine sitting around so that
tells me if something funny happened to
it and they're a little bit afraid to to
reveal the problem that occurred but as
you see you've got an old apart the
machine came in here having no power
whatsoever and the first thing that I
asked him his did this happen during a
thunderstorm and of course he reply will
I don't think so well after pulling out
the motherboard looking at the bottom of
it you tell me what kind of damage that
would be that looks to me like it's
lightning damage it looks like something
blew up right over here and it came
through either the USB or the ethernet
probably Ethernet because it's no
tourists for either coming in through
the cable line or grounding out through
the cable modem so that's probably what
happened there and then it looks like
you grounded out to the computer case
somehow through the audio connection
right there because there happens to be
a burn spot on the case in the same spot
so that's what we're looking at down
there but lightning damage I'm sorry
lightning is not covered by warranty in
this shop I cannot cover acts of God and
in this case I'm hoping that he has a
homeowner's insurance policy that does
cover against such things that his a
power company service has an insurance
policy on it as well based on a surge
protector they may have installed but
you know lightning will hit your
computer from wants to hit it and the
computer problem could have been avoided
had the customer of unplugged his
machine during a thunderstorm you don't
leave a plugged in you always make sure
that you have a battery backup or surge
protector on it and it's not that the
surge protector or battery backup is
going to necessarily protect you from
lightning because it won't you unplug
your computer so answer your first
edition of how to fail at computers